# hackathon-submission-template
Please use this template for submitting solutions for the Microsoft Azure Women's Hackathon 2022
India is one of the world’s fastest-growing economies, with women mostly from the middle class increasingly toward the inside the labor force. Digitalization offers a diversity of opportunities for female empowerment and for a more equivalent female participation in labor markets, financial markets, and entrepreneurship. Currently, digitalization seems to favor the female labor force that faces a lower risk of being replaced by machines, as compared to the male labor force. Women’s frequently superior social skills stand for a relative advantage in the digital age, and this is predominantly so when social skills are complemented with higher education and advanced digital transformation literacy. 
Information Technology is a powerful tool for women to use to overcome discrimination, achieve full equality, well-being, and participation in decisions that impact the quality of their lives and the future of their communities. The number of exclusive subscribers using mobile internet in rising countries grew from 728 million in 2010 to 1.8 billion in 2014. In 2016, 70 percent of Indian internet users (distribution) were male while 30 percent were female users. This was predictable to alter to 60 percent male users and 40 percent female users by 2020. The female internet subscriber’s people are half of the 258 million male Internet users, and the partiality is more manifest in rural India. Along with States, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Delhi have a top proportion of feminine internet users. This has insightful implications for women’s financial, social, and political empowerment. Beginning entrepreneurship opportunities to inexpensive healthcare and peer education platforms, mobile internet is beginning to empower women in stimulating ways. The aim of this paper is to show the situation of women in newly emerging areas of information technology and to study the diverse ways in which IT has benefited women in provisions of employment.

INTRODUCTION
The principle of femininity equal opportunity is enshrined in the Indian constitution in its preamble, fundamental rights, duties, and directive principles. The constitution not only grants equal opportunity to women but also empowers the State to take on measures of positive discrimination in kindness of women. Women’s empowerment has been a characteristic of development support from the time when the 1990s. Women empowerment is also distinct as "a change in the circumstance of a women's life, which enables her greater than before capacity for important a satisfying human life. It gets reflected in exterior qualities such as health, mobility, education and awareness, class in the family, participation in decision making, and also at the intensity of material security. This is also adding of internal qualities such as self-awareness and self-confidence. Just 29% of India’s internet users or subscribers are women. Except this digital gender separate is bridged, India’s hard line push towards digitization will further establish the political, monetary, and social marginalization of women. The immensity of policy and commercial interventions focus on humanizing access to internet services by upgrading range and broadband infrastructure and bringing down the costs to human being users, in adding together to facilitating the uptake of digital technologies through programs for digital skilling. Remote technical solutions, however, will be inadequate to deal with the social and cultural heredity of India’s digital gender divide. Take mobile phone associations for paradigm. While 43% of Indian men own a cell phone, women lag following with only 28% mobile ownership. The gender gap in mobile ownership-estimated at about114 million-reinforces the information of unequal access but also paints an incomplete and disingenuous picture.
DIGITAL SKILLS
Digital skills are definite as a collection of abilities to use digital devices, communication applications, and networks to right of entry and supervise information. They facilitate group to generate and share digital content, communicate and work together, and solve problems for successful and creative self-fulfillment in life, learning, work, and social tricks at large. Entry-level digital skills, denotation basic functional skills necessary to make fundamental use of digital devices and online applications, are extensively careful a critical component of a new set of literacy skills in the digital age, with conventional reading, writing, and numeracy skills. At the advanced spectrum of digital skills are the higher-level abilities that allow users to make use of digital technologies in empowering and transformative ways such as professions in ICT. Major digital transformations such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), machine learning, big data analytics, change skills requirements and, in turn, impact capacity building and skills development for the 21st century digital economy. To flourish in the associated economy and society, digital skills must also gathering and jointly with other abilities such as well-built literacy and numeracy skills, critical and innovative thinking, complex problem solving, an ability to work together, and socio-emotional skills.
WOMEN EMPOWERMENT
Women’s empowerment is the process of growing women’s right of entry to control over the planned life choices that affect them and way in to the opportunities that allow them completely to realize their capacities. Women’s empowerment as an economic, political, and socio-cultural progression challenges the structure of sexual stratification that has resulted in women’s subordination and marginalization in order to get better women’s excellence of life.
TACKLING INEQUALITIES AND GENDER DIVIDE
There are major inequalities in digital skills in both developing and developed countries along with a number of lines, notably socioeconomic status, race, gender, geography, age, and educational background. Gender divides in digital skills are severe: women are 1.6 times more likely than men to report a lack of skills as a factor impeding their use of the internet. The proportion of women using the Internet is 12% lower than the proportion of men using the Internet, and the gender gap in Internet usage has widened between 2013 and 2017, in particular in the least developed countries. Not including policy interventions, ongoing scientific developments intimidate to exacerbate the inequalities between those with and without digital skills. Integrated and comprehensive responses are urgently needed. Government is the main act for need to play a fundamental role in setting up the fundamental principles for comprehensive and evenhanded digital skills development, providing programs and capacity development initiatives for disadvantaged of community or group, and re-skilling youth or middle age persons or women at risk for job disarticulation. Ensuring that everybody has pertinent digital skills helps encourage comprehensive and equitable education and permanent learning for all. Digital Skills for Women is a non-profit knowledge group created by women for women aimed at female-identifying professionals who do not have knowledge in the skill/digital/ Information Technology business


. SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
 Programme will be strengthened to bring about a superior participation of women in science and technology. These will comprise procedures to motivate girls to take up science and technology for higher education and also make sure that improvement projects with scientific and technical inputs engage women completely. Hard work to develop a scientific irritation and awareness will also be step up. Extraordinary procedures would be taken for their guidance in areas where they have particular skills like Communication and Information Technology (ICT). Efforts to expand suitable technologies suited to women’s needs as well as to diminish their hard work will be given a special focus too.
MATERIAL COVERED 
• Digital marketing strategy 
• Social media marketing 
• SEO 
• Content marketing 
• Privacy 
• Block chain 
• UX/UI. 
• Analytics 
• Cybersecurity 
• Databases 
• Website strategy
DIGITAL TRAINING AND WOMEN EMPOWERMENT 
In arrange to address the femininity based and other inequalities and inequities in the public and empower women, it is vital to tap the marvelous potential of ICTs. Inaccessible ICT initiatives in different parts of the humanity have given away how such programs can advantage women. Vodafone’s initiative’ ‘linked Women’ has predictable 5.3 million women could be lifted out of illiteracy through mobile technology by 2020. Such technology could reduce violent behavior against women and enable women to seek innovative opportunities leading to an increase in economic action estimated at 3.4 billion US dollars.
DOMAINS OF EMPOWERMENT
 Empowerment is the process by which a human being gains the aptitude to make planned life choices. It can be a human being or group and can take place in different spheres of life, including: Psychological empowerment – when women come to consider that they should be able to make or manipulate decisions that affect them and increase the self-assurance to take action on this. Political empowerment – when females gain the ability to pressure the rules and norms that govern the social order and decisions about who gets what, when and how. This can be through public or private organizations, concern formal or informal rules/institutions, community, sub-national, and national levels.
Social empowerment – when women increase the ability to create/influence decisions about their social connections (e.g. mobility, association with others), reproduction, health and learning. Economic empowerment – when women gain the aptitude to build or create/influence and act on decisions about their contribution in labour markets, their share of voluntary work and in the share and use of their own/their household’s assets. Mobile internet applications (or ‘apps’): Internet related software planned to run on smart-phones, tablet computers, and other mobile devices. Apps are stand-alone programmes that differentiate from accessing internet contented through a browser (although a browser itself is an application). Examples include email applications such as Gmail and Yahoo mail, search engines such as Google and Bing, and social media platform like as Twitter, Facebook, etc.
IMPACT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ON RURAL WOMEN EMPOWERMENT In India, women comprise a large portion of the rural population and play a substantial role in the rural sector. These women engage in economic activities such as handicrafts and sewing or rolling cigarettes, the weaving of baskets and fabrics, working in cities as vendors. They are in urgent need of the following information for their further development: 
• Educational opportunities outside the village.
• Job opportunities in both the formal and informal sectors. 
• Government assistance programs career advancement within the restrictions of traditions. 
• Modern child care facilities. 
• Legal provisions to counter sexual harassment, domestic violence & social injustice. 
By providing the above information, information Technology played a greater role in rural women empowerment. Information Technology also helped in rural women's empowerment by making them aware of the world and more particularly, what is happening in India? The Internet has helped them in assimilating information about the variety, range, and quality of product publicity and marketing of products and services. Apart from being used as a tool of information, the application of information technology has created avenues for women empowerment. Noteworthy examples are that of SEWA, Embalam, NABANNA & emahile. SEWA (Self Employed Women's Association) uses information technology for women empowerment. It uses an internetbased training programme to develop a cadre of barefoot managers among the poor women workers, focusing on women in panchayats, forests & soon. 
